[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Ancient Memphis-- throughout
the historical record,
this once-great capital city
of ancient Egypt was home
to several mystics, healers,
psychics, and scientists,
and became an epicenter for
spiritual transformation
and alchemy.
The Egyptian deity, Thoth, was
an enlightened, pre-diluvian
master, who was
later known as Hermes
Trismegistus in ancient Greece.
This wise elder
was believed to be
the architect of the
pre-diluvian temple
system along the Nile, where
he taught certain practices
for both spiritual and
chemical alchemy that remained
the foundational
teachings for the math
and mystical arts of Memphis.
A deeper look into the
initiation practices
of the pharaohs in this region
reveals alchemical clues
to a sacred element, served
as a cone-shaped cake that
may have enhanced their
connection to the cosmos.
What other clues remain
beneath the sacred sand
to help alternative researchers
illuminate the power
and knowledge of the ancient
alchemists, priests, artists,
and architects, who called the
land known as Memphis home?
>> Egypt was very well known
throughout the ancient world
as being a land of the wise, and
alchemy had its birth in this
land of the wise.
And so the order of
priesthood of Egypt,
and especially around
Memphis and the capital,
they were very much
known as the alchemists,
whether it was working
with herbs or metallurgy
or the vibrational energies in
general, the wisdom harnessing
the stars.
All the alchemists
of Europe, who
wanted to learn from
the wisest masters,
went to Egypt to learn
their trade, their arts.
>> The word "alchemy" actually
comes from "al-Kemet."
And Kemet was the
ancient name for Egypt.
It was the pre-diluvian
name for Egypt.
So from Kemet, we get
"alchemy," and from "alchemy,"
we actually get the
word, "chemistry."
So all of these
things are related,
but they all go back to the
sacred science of ancient Egypt.
>> As we follow the
footsteps of Imhotep,
the great polymath and
architect of the Djoser Pyramid,
we're following his trail
of influence into Memphis,
into Saqqara, into the
various temples in the region,
where they were
studying, practicing,
and bringing new healing art
modalities into the world
through an order that they
called the order of therapeutae.
This was a group of priests
and metallurgists and healers
and alchemists all
practicing the healing arts,
which is what therapeutae
is, the origin of the word
"therapeutic" or "therapy,"
meaning "healing."
They were exploring
different magical elixirs.
They were delving into the
deeper secrets of alchemy,
not only to increase
the health and vitality
and healing of the body, but to
take it to an ascended state,
to take it to a higher
state of being so that you
could live like the gods.
You could be like the gods,
not only in life and vitality,
but continuing to the afterlife.
>> Imhotep was known by
the Greeks as Asclepius,
and, in fact, it was believed
that he developed alchemical
sciences having to do with
immortality and longevity,
and that he brought these from
Memphis, the area of Egypt,
into Greece.
And according to mythology,
Zeus actually had him killed.
Now, it was believed he learned
these things from Hermes
himself, who was believed
to be the father of alchemy,
according to the tradition.
And in fact, the sciences
that he developed,
that he brought
into Greece actually
became the practices
for the therapeutae
who were living there.
>> The order of the therapeutae
are an extraordinarily important
group.
They have within their name
Ptah, the healers of "Peutah"
or Ptah.
And this is a line
of soul healers
that begins, actually, in Egypt,
but finds its way back to Egypt
through India.
When the city of Alexandria was
being built by the Ptolemaic
Kings, the successor of
Alexander the Great, King Ashoka
from India dispatched
his healers
of the soul, the
therapeutae, to Alexandria
to meet up with the
Jewish mystics, as well
as mystics that came from
Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan.
Throughout that
part of the world,
there was this
awesome convergence
of all of these
alchemical scholars
and light body scholars
that met in Alexandria.
And all of them ultimately draw
a line to the mysteries of Ptah
at Saqqara.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> With little evidence of
the temples and laboratories
remaining above the
sacred sands of Saqqara,
the search for clues leads back
to a famous biblical relic.
In 2003, Laurence Gardner
released the book,
Lost Secrets of the Sacred Ark.
In this astounding
achievement, Gardner
questioned everything
we have been
taught about the sacred
Ark of the Covenant,
and provided alchemical evidence
of our ancient ancestors'
ability to bend the
rules of reality.
>> Laurence Gardner produced
an absolute revelation when it
comes to the ancient
Egyptian science of human
transfiguration.
This book came on the heels
of his runaway bestseller,
Bloodline of the Holy Grail, and
also Genesis of the Grail Kings.
In both of those books,
Laurence was hugely interested
in human DNA.
In his book, Lost Secrets
of the Sacred Ark,
Laurence Gardner started to
focus on the Israelite or Hebrew
legends about manna, this
mysterious substance that
fell out of the sky.
Moses was said to have been
able to make it or identify it
or even to produce it.
As Laurence pulls
on the thread, he's
led back to the
ancient Egyptians.
And he's, in particular, led to
a discovery made by Sir Flinders
Petrie in 1904, at
a temple dedicated
to the Egyptian goddess,
Hathor, at a place called
Serabit el-Khadim.
When he arrives there, he
finds these temple scenes,
and he's led into the inner
sanctum, a cave-like structure
devoted to Hathor, where he
locates what he describes
as tons of this mysterious white
powder substance that apparently
had been manufactured
at Serabit el-Khadim.
>> Another thing that Laurence
Gardner pointed out is that Sir
Flinders Petrie found crucibles
on top of the mountain
of the Serabit el-Khadim.
What a crucible is
is it's basically
like a giant pot
that can withstand
extremely high temperatures.
And this is where you calcinate
or you burn things down.
He suggests that this was
a manufacturing plant.
It was an alchemical plant
that was happening there.
>> Laurence realizes that what
he's potentially dealing with
in this line of research is
gold that had been transfigured
into powder.
And as he continues
on this path,
he runs up against
modern science
that tells us that this white
powder gold, as it's described,
can interface with
human DNA, making
it many thousands of
times more superconductive
than in its natural state.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Throughout the temples
and the tombs in Egypt,
we very clearly see references
to the pharaohs and those
in high position being given
or being offered a substance.
According to the
hieroglyphs, this
is a substance that promotes
longevity, promotes healing,
and allows them
powers that those
who have not ingested the
substance don't seem to have.
The question is, what
is that substance?
There has been
speculation for years
that it is gold, a form of
gold, called monatomic gold.
When we see the temple
walls, the pharaohs
are being offered a
pyramidal-shaped substance,
and it is within that substance
that the monatomic gold
is believed to exist.
>> Originally, in ancient Egypt,
what they did is they figured
out how to extract
these monatomics,
and they would bake it into
bread for the pharaoh to eat.
This monatomic gold that was
being ingested by the pharaohs
was actually helping them
not only raise their health,
but also to have access to
different densities of reality,
to be able to unite
what they believed
was with their ancestors.
In the Egyptian Book of the
Dead or the Egyptian Book
of Coming Forth
by Light, it talks
about the pharaoh
receiving these things
as part of his journey
to the afterlife.
It says, "I am white.
I am pure.
What is it?
I provide health and long life.
What is it?"
Well, it just so happens in
Hebrew, the word "manna,"
which is what this
substance is, that "manna"
in Hebrew actually
means, "What is it?"
>> There is a suggestion
that the alchemical process
to produce this gold was
actually not just at Serabit
el-Khadim in the
Sinai Peninsula.
It was also found in
the area around Memphis
linked to the priests of Ptah
or the order of therapeutae.
And so, in fact, the tradition
of creating this gold
may have been found
all over Egypt.
And so we have the whole
idea of alchemy really coming
to the fore in ancient Egypt.
>> In terms of producing
monatomic elements,
there's two ways.
One way is to extract
them, and you extract them
by calcinating down
vegetable matter to ashes.
Then you subject it to
certain acids and lyes,
and you're able to get
the monatomic elements
to precipitate out.
The other way to do it is
to convert platinum metals
into this monatomic state.
This usually requires
electricity, high arcs,
as well as acids to do it.
The Egyptians could have done
either based on the technology
that we believe they inherited.
>> "monatomic," first of
all, means "single atom."
When it comes to
exotic matter, which
is what is hypothesized
around the monatomic elements,
is that they were
in an altered state,
and they weren't
there naturally.
They, in a way, almost had to
be purified and transformed
and taken through the
alchemical process.
So, for example, the alchemists
would have started with gold,
and they would have
taken that gold
through the alchemical stages
and various purification.
They would have
submitted it to fire.
They would have tried to purify
and get all of the impurities
out, and to the point
where they could get it
where fire no longer did
anything to the element.
And at that point, they
said it was perfected.
When it was in this
perfected form,
there are some alchemists,
including Nicolas Flamel,
for example, that were
quoted as saying it was not
a stone but a white powder.
And the ancient
Egyptians were said
to have been creating this white
powder, this monatomic gold,
starting from gold, but then
it became something else.
And it was said that
this was the true manna
or the shem-an-na, the
bread of light and of life,
and that this was fed
to the Egyptian pharaohs
and the high initiates to
help them become enlightened.
>> The Egyptian name for the
substance was actually mfkzt.
When the Templars went into
Egypt and started studying
the temple walls, and they
started studying the alchemical
practices, what we now know is
that this force called "world
spirit" is actually ignitons,
which are very small
quasiparticles that are
transmitted by active stars.
It was believed that this
monatomic gold actually
attracted the world spirit
to it or the ignitons.
It was like a magnet
for the ignitons.
Now that we know this
world spirit is ignitons,
we decided we needed
to do modern testing.
So in order to do this, we sent
monatomic gold to Switzerland
to be tested in a
modern lab so that we
could determine if these
ignitons were really there.
And what we found is that,
actually, the monatomic gold
was loaded with ignitons,
suggesting that it really
was a great attractor for them.
It was a magnet for them.
Thereby, if you're actually
ingesting this monatomic gold,
what you're really
doing is you're
taking in all these
loaded ignitons.
This is what's
contributing to health,
and it's what's contributing to
the raising of consciousness,
just like the ancient
temple walls suggested.
The Templars, as they learned
the alchemical practice
for creating monatomic
gold, started
to bake this monatomic gold
into their bread, particularly
their bread that was
turned into communion
wafers for the sacrament
that they were serving.
The Templars were known
for living very long.
It was believed that some of
it had to do with their diet,
but some of it had
to do with ingesting
these white cakes
of monatomic gold,
just like the pharaohs had in
Egypt, that were attracting
the ignitons to them.
The grand master,
Jacques de Molay,
who was burnt at the stake
in 1314, he was in his 70s,
when most people only
lived to 30 in those days.
So we now know
this is absolutely
what was contributing to
their long life and the reason
why they were living so
much longer than everybody
else during that time.
>> One of the interesting
features about when monatomic
gold is being produced is
that 44% of it disappears.
No one knows where it
goes, and some people
have suggested it actually
goes to another dimension.
The Egyptians called
it the field of mfkzt.
And so this is like the kind
of other dimensional connection
we have with this gold.
So they thought that
when you take it,
you're connecting with this
other dimensional reality.
>> When we look to cultures
all over the world,
ancient cultures, to these
magical substances that bring
an ascended state of being, a
higher state of enlightenment,
we are not only seeing mfkzt
formed out of gold in Egypt,
but we are finding, in
the Greco-Roman tradition,
ichor and ambrosia, the food
of the gods that let them live
in this higher
state of vitality.
We find in the Vedic and
Hindu traditions, soma,
which brings you also into
the higher ascended state.
And if we go back to
the Norse tradition,
we find Idunn and
her golden apples,
that when the gods eat these
apples, they have eternal life.
They have youthful
vitality and strength.
And it's very interesting that
these apples are golden, just
like the monatomic
gold of mfkzt,
the bread of the pharaohs.
>> Laurence Gardner was one
of the first people to connect
monatomics with the
esoteric tradition.
Laurence Gardner was a Templar.
He was a Knight Templar, and
he learned of this process
through the Templar
tradition because Templars
were passing on this tradition.
They originally learned
of it from certain members
of the Coptic church, the
Sabians and the Druze,
all who had passed on this
alchemical tradition from Egypt.
That's where the
Templar order got it.
That's where Laurence
Gardner learned of it.
>> Laurence had some fascinating
things to say about this
monatomic gold.
He said that it was produced by
taking gold, and then entering
it into a high spin state,
so that it would literally
enter into this field or
dimension of the blessed,
as it was called,
and be transformed
and that in its
transformed state,
it had these incredible
properties of levitation,
anti-gravity, and that it could
even convey those qualities
to other objects.
As he continues
his investigation,
he realizes that
the technology that
could be utilized to produce
this white powder substance
is the biblical Ark of the
Covenant, which is thought
of as a communications device.
In the Old Testament stories,
the Old Testament god, Yahweh,
would manifest on the mercy
seat of the Ark of the Covenant
as this luminous humanoid
figure surrounded
by rainbow-colored light.
But the Ark of the
Covenant also had
these electrical
capabilities as well.
It was thought to
have been radioactive.
It's thought of even
as a weapon system.
>> One question that comes up
when it comes to this monatomic
gold is, how does it get
to this high spin state?
How does it get to this place
of becoming exotic matter?
And some of the
studies that have
been done on it
in modern day have
shown that you need to
provide a high temperature
current of electricity.
So, for example, an
arc has been applied
to the gold or the
platinum to heat it up
to temperatures that
are equivalent to what
you would find on the sun.
And so the arc is providing this
high temperature, high energy
state that is pumping all
of this energy density
into the atom,
which is then part
of what transforms the atom
into a new exotic state.
We know from astrophysics
that within stars, this is
the birthplace of higher atoms.
The stars are
alchemical furnaces
that allow for the atoms
to build up from hydrogen
to helium to oxygen, carbon.
All of these higher elements
that we have in the universe
come from stars and supernova.
[EXPLOSION]
So there's plasma physics
that starts coming in.
There's high energy physics
There's nuclear and quantum
and all of these higher physics
elements come in when you reach
these temperatures in the stars.
So it's been hypothesized
that the Ark of the Covenant
was something that could
also create such an arc.
The positive pole and
the negative pole,
the cherubim coming
across was where
that point of almost connection,
where the current could leap
across and create this arc.
And then if some gold
was placed in that,
it would then transform
it into the white powder
or into the monatomic.
>> What's so interesting
about this, too,
is that they talk about the Ark
of the Covenant as being a most
holy device.
The difference between something
that is holy and something that
is most holy, like the
Ark of the Covenant,
is that the Ark of the Covenant
could convey or transpose
an unholy object into a most
holy object or holy object.
So there's consistency
here with what Laurence
is saying with the monatomic
gold in ancient Egypt
and what the Bible says about
the Ark of the Covenant.
>> In his book, Laurence makes
a very interesting observation
about the etymology of the
word, "ark," spelled A-R-K.
He notes that the Latin "A-R-K"
comes from the Greek "A-R-C,"
phonetically the
same, but A-R-C,
arc refers to a
box or a container.
He goes on to note that the
Latin and the Greek ark, A-R-K,
A-R-C, then goes into French,
and it becomes arche, A-R-C-H-E.
Well, by the time arc
gets into English,
and ark, A-R-K, is a
boat, like Noah sailed in.
It's a method of transportation.
Arc, A-R-C, is something
that electricity does.
It makes an arc.
Well, of course, that's what the
Ark of the Covenant did as well.
So now we seem to be going in
circles here, but not really.
We're just getting into
the heart of the matter
here that the Ark
of the Covenant
was a transportation device.
It was a boat of the gods.
They could use it to teleport
throughout the cosmos.
It was a container.
It is a source of mysteries
and hidden secrets.
And it's an electrical device.
Moses's brother,
Aaron, had two sons
who were killed by
bolts that emerged
from the Ark of the Covenant.
So it very clearly was
an electrical device
and was capable of
producing an electrical arc.
>> As the mysteries mount
around the power and purpose
of the legendary
Ark of the Covenant,
new questions arise around the
connection with this sacred
device and monatomic alchemy.
>> The Templar
order, to this day,
still extracts
monatomic elements.
They use them primarily in,
like, a communion ritual
that they do, where it
represents the bread
during the communion ritual.
In fact, if you go to the
Temple of Seti I at Abydos,
there is a chamber that's
closed to the public.
What's significant
about that chamber,
though, is on the
temple walls of that
chamber is a depiction of an
ark undergoing transportation.
It also shows an ark not
under transportation,
and there's Templar
graffiti from the 1200s,
these red Templar crosses
emphasizing that ark.
According to our
tradition, that chamber
was one of the chambers where
the Templar order recovered
one of six arks that are
currently in our possession.
So Laurence Gardner-- part
of his work was to bring--
start to bring to the
attention of people
this connection
between these arks
and these monatomic elements.
But we continue, to this
day, to utilize these things.
>> One of the theories about
the Ark of the Covenant is that
the superconductive qualities
that are supposed to be
associated with that, the energy
that it was supposed to have
created, it's really intriguing
because some people have
suggested this was actually
the crucible itself,
where monatomic
gold was created.
It was alchemically
produced, somehow,
in the Ark of the Covenant.
So if that's the case, this
is really, really intriguing
because not only do we
have the idea that there
was more than one
ark, also that it
may have been connected
with the construction
of these megalithic
sites and pyramids
that we actually find in Egypt.
Now, the reason being is that
when you create this monatomic
gold-- and this has been
tested relatively recently--
it creates an
anti-gravitational field
around where it's being
produced at that time.
And so not only are you
producing this sacred kind
of substance, which you
ingest for spiritual purposes,
but also, you're creating
a field, where you can
levitate giant blocks of stone.
>> We see examples of this
referred to in the Torah
or the Old Testament with the
Ark of the Covenant, which,
just based on the layers of gold
and acacia wood and everything
else that was involved in it,
would have weighed at least two
tons.
And yet two people
could carry it
with rods, which
doesn't even make sense,
unless it's somehow
levitating, or it's somehow
losing that weight.
>> So if you have a quantity
of this monatomic gold,
and you're sitting next to a
100-ton block of red granite,
it could be levitated.
Now, think about that in
light of the mystery of how
the ancient Egyptians were
so effortlessly able to move
100-ton-plus blocks of
granite at the Osireion,
at the Valley Temple, in the
King's Chamber of the Great
Pyramid.
How did they do this?
Is this-- is it possible that
this is what they were doing?
>> There's something very
different in the properties
of these monatomic elements
that allows them to almost defy.
It's like we have to go
beyond our known physics now
to fully explain what
might be happening.
We have to start looking
at the possibility
of parallel realities, alternate
dimensions, anti-gravity,
wormholes-- all of
these kinds of things
start to become part of
the realm of possibility
when we explore into exotic
matter and its properties.
>> As more alchemical mysteries
from ancient Memphis are
discovered, what other
evidence will be revealed about
the powers of gold that helped
the ancient Egyptian pharaohs
gain deeper access to the
multi-dimensional realms that
are beyond our understanding?
>> New discoveries are now
shedding some new light on this
concept.
It's still all
about gold, but it's
a different kind of gold called
nanogold, nanoparticle gold.
Now, this is fascinating to me
because nanoparticle gold is
known-- in the scientific
community, it is accepted.
It is being applied
successfully today
in a number of
medical applications.
And the reason is because it is
bioavailable to the human body.
If these principles were known
in the time of the pharaohs,
it would make sense
that it would give them
extraordinary abilities that
those around them don't have.
For example, one of the things
that has been discovered
is that nanogold actually helps
the DNA in the replication
process.
When we think of DNA, the two
strands that we know today,
the double helix, when
that DNA replicates,
those two strands come undone.
The term is unzipping,
and they become unzipped.
And the monatomic gold
could help with that,
but the nanogold is documented
with doing precisely this.
It accelerates the
unzipping of the DNA,
producing more opportunities
to replicate more DNA
in a shorter period of time.
In short, the nanogold
enhances our ability
to be the best version of our
biological selves, whatever
that biology would be.
So whether these are pure humans
or, perhaps, hybrid humans,
as the texts suggest,
whatever biology was there
would benefit from the
nanoparticles of gold.
So when we look at
the role of gold
in the past as a
monetary instrument,
as an ornament of
beauty, we also
see that gold has been viewed as
a substance that enhances life.
And as we discover more
about the hidden mysteries
underneath the Giza
Plateau, we discover
more of the texts
that have never
been translated and
deciphered, and we
see more examples of
the intact pyramids that
have still not been
opened, I think
that we're going to have deeper
insights, greater understanding
into precisely how
these principles worked
and what the manna of the
pharaohs was really all about.